So, guys, welcome back.
Now let us get ourselves familiar with physical pages and physical frames so shown in the diagram on
the left hand side is a typical.
Let us say that it is the main memory whose size is four gigabytes.
Therefore, the address of the last byte in this random access memory is to restore the power to minus
one.
This will be the physical address of the last byte in this physical memory.
Now, if the fragment, this main memory in blocks of equal size, each block is then called a frame.
Right.
So you can see that we have logically divided this physical memory into blocks of equal size on more
system architecture.
The size of the frame is taken as four kilobytes.
Right.
So this is one frame and the size of one frame is four kilobytes.
This size is configurable and you can change it.
But the operating system designers have chosen four kilobytes as the most optimal value used as a size
of a frame.
So now the question is, how many frames are there in this of physical memory?
Just apply a simple mathematics and you will get that number of frames will be equal to size of physical
memory, divided by a size of one frame.
So it means that this form of physical memory is divided into two is to the power 20 frames of equal
size.
Now coming to the physical page, but a snapshot of the data stored in a frame of a physical memory
is called a physical Fage right subframe of a physical memory is nothing, but it is a block of physical
memory of size, particular bytes.
And of course, it's a physical memory.
Therefore, you will have some data over here right now.
If you pick up a camera and take the picture or a snapshot of this frame of this physical memory, then
what you will get is that snapshot of the data which is stored in this portion of the physical memory.
That snapshot is called physical page.
So obviously the size of the physical page is equal to the size of a frame of physical memory.
So you can always think the physical memory frames as a container of physical pages.
So the important takeaway from this slide is that a physical page is nothing, but it is a snapshot
of one of the frame of the physical memory.
So you can understand it better with the help of an analogy.
So analog here is that suppose you have a container and inside that container you can keep a maximum
of three apples, right?
And your target is that you have to carry nine apples from one place to another.
So what will you do?
You will take a container, you will put three apples inside that container.
You will then transport those three apples from your current position to new position.
You will come back with the empty container because you have taken out those three apples at your destination
spot.
Again, we will place the next three apples in the container and again, transport those three apples
to your new location.
And again, you will come back with an empty container and you will repeat this exercise.
So in this analogy, your container is like a main mammary, which has maximum of to restore the power
20 frames, whereas a number of physical pages existing in the system is not limited by memory size.
You can have extremely, very large number of physical pages and we will see in the next slide that
only to restore the power to the physical pages can be capped in the main memory at maximum.
The rest of the physical pages have to reside on a disk.